Debug Capture - Getting Started

Welcome to Debug Capture.

Debug Capture records Visual Studio debugging moments by creating a screenshot and a matching debugger text snapshot.

Quick Start

1. Install the VSIX extension.
2. Restart Visual Studio if prompted.
3. Open a solution you want to debug.
4. Start debugging with F5.
5. Hit a breakpoint, step action, or supported exception.
6. Open %USERPROFILE%\Pictures\VSScreenshots to view the generated files.

What Gets Captured

Debug Capture currently records:

- Breakpoints
- Step Into actions
- Step Over actions
- Exceptions when Visual Studio enters break mode and shows the exception helper

Each capture creates two files with the same timestamp and action suffix:

- .png screenshot of the Visual Studio IDE window
- .txt debugger snapshot for the same moment

Example output:

2026-09-15_19-34-20-805_BREAKPOINT.png
2026-09-15_19-34-20-805_BREAKPOINT.txt

Debugger Text Snapshot

The .txt file includes:

- File path relative to the project when possible
- Current line number
- Locals values
- Autos/argument values
- Call stack entries

If a variable cannot be evaluated, the error is written into the text file instead of interrupting debugging.

Output Folder

Files are saved to:

%USERPROFILE%\Pictures\VSScreenshots

The folder is created automatically when the first capture is written.

Preview Text Snapshots with FZF

Create _list.bat in the screenshot folder:

powershell -NoProfile -c ls -Name *.txt | fzf --layout=reverse --preview-window=wrap --preview="type {}"

Run _list.bat to browse debugger text snapshots with an interactive preview pane.

Troubleshooting

If no files are created:

1. Confirm the extension is installed and enabled.
2. Confirm Visual Studio is running a debug session.
3. Confirm the debugger actually entered break mode.
4. Check the Visual Studio Output window pane named DebugCapture.

Debug Capture avoids showing dialogs during capture, so internal errors are written silently to the Output window.

Build from Source

1. Open DebugCapture.slnx in Visual Studio.
2. Restore NuGet packages if prompted.
3. Build the project.
4. Press F5 to launch the experimental Visual Studio instance.
5. Debug a sample application and inspect the screenshot output folder.

Notes

The extension keeps UI-thread work minimal.

Screenshot capture, PNG encoding, and file writes run asynchronously off the main Visual Studio UI thread.

Feature flags exist internally for capture types and can be connected to an options page later.
